Add RFC for Github Templates (#4)
fastruby/RFCs: 2021-10-13-github-templates.md

# OmbuLabs Standard Github Templates

## Problem:

New and junior contributors might be unsure about the information we require to
efficiently review a PR. Similarly, it might be unclear what information is required when
a new BUG or FEATURE is logged as an issue in Github.

We have existing PR and ISSUE templates but they are inconsistent and might ask for
unnecessary information from the contributor.

The goal is to simplify  and streamline the steps required to make a contribution or log
an issue.

## Proposal:

Come up with a consistent set of Github templates. The templates should include prompts
only the ESSENTIAL information we require. We want to make sure that we don't ask for more
information than we require - as this will discourages contributions.

## Templates:

### Pull Requests

```

>     <!--- Before we start... -->

Reviewer: We don't need this text

Reviewer 2: I agree that we usually end up ignoring this section when craeting a PR, it gets too repetitive

>     <!--- If you're unsure about any of these, don't hesitate to ask. We're here to help! -->

Reviewer: If there's a possibility they feel unsure, probably we are asking too many questions

Reviewer 2: I still think this is unclear for the contibutor, ask were? create an issue? some other place? this should be clear but there should be a `how to contribute` section in the project and not here in the template, maybe the template can link to that document

Reviewer: Agree on linking to the contributing guide, a-lot of what we are putting in this template should be there, the template should be smaller :squirrel:

    <!--- Did you update any relevant documentation -->

>     <!--- Did you add tests to cover new changes -->

Reviewer 3: @fbuys hm, what's the point of these two questions? The reviewer can easily have an answer by looking at the files changed.

If it's just a reminder for the person creating the PR maybe we should rephrase them to something like:
- Make sure to update any relevant documentation
- Make sure to add automated tests for the new changes

Reviewer 2: I think we could have a `how to contribute` document that explains all the details, having this in the template just adds extra work removing them.

Also reviewers should note that tests or documentation is missing to ask for that.

Reviewer 2: https://docs.github.com/en/communities/setting-up-your-project-for-healthy-contributions/setting-guidelines-for-repository-contributors github supports a CONTRIBUTING file that pops up this message for new contributors

Reviewer 2: though I think this should be better discussed with the open source team, I think it's a good idea to leverage that github feature to cleanup the templates, but then we need a good `contributing.md` file that we can reuse in projects

Reviewer 4: i'm into the idea of adding `contributing.md` files, I usually find them really helpful.

    ## Description
    <!--- Describe your changes in detail -->

>     <!--- Please read the README before submitting pull requests for this project. -->

Reviewer 3: @fbuys I think this one should go in the "Before we start" section

>     ## Motivation and Context

Reviewer: Why we need this if we are asking them to "describe their changes in detail" in the `## Description` section

Reviewer 2: The problem is that you can describe the changes you did without any context on why you did those changes in the previous section. Like you can say `Changed all the syntax X to syntax Y` and it's not clear to the reviewer why that change is needed.

This section could explain that and link to an issue for example, so the what and the why are not all mixed up.

Reviewer: then we should ask: "Please describe the motivation and context fot the changes, thanks" ?

    <!--- Why is this change required? What problem does it solve? -->
    <!--- If it fixes an open issue, please link to the issue here. -->

    ## How Has This Been Tested?

>     <!--- Include any relevant details about your testing environment and the steps you followed -->

Reviewer 3: @fbuys hm, not fully sure about this one, can I have an example of how an answer for this would be?

Reviewer 2: An answer here would be something like `This happens only on Safari X and Firefox Y` or `This work unless these steps are followed in this specific order: ...` like giving any information that can be relevant

>     ## Screenshots (if appropriate):

Reviewer 3: @fbuys Maybe we can say something like:

```suggestion
    ## Screenshots:
    <!-- Add screenshots (applicable for any UI changes) -->
```

    **I will abide by the [code of conduct](<LINK TO CODE OF CONDUCT HERE>)**
```

### Issues: Bug Reports

```
    <!--- Before we start... -->
    <!--- Did you check the documentation for answers? -->
    <!--- Did you make sure that this bug has not already been reported? -->

    ## Expected Behavior

>     <!--- Tell us what should happen -->

Reviewer 5: Might be easier to provide a fill in the blanks format here? 

```
<!--- Tell us what should happen -->
When I <did X> I was expecting it to <produce Y>
```

    ## Actual Behavior

>     <!--- Tell us what happens instead -->

Reviewer 5: Same idea here: 

Might be easier to provide a fill in the blanks format here? 

```
<!--- Tell us what happens instead -->
When I <did X>, <this unexpected thing happened>
```

    ## Possible Fix

>     <!--- Optionally suggest a fix or reason for the bug -->

Reviewer 5: There could be a workaround too, maybe they could provide that too?

    ## Steps to Reproduce

>     <!--- Provide a link to a live example, or an unambiguous set of steps to -->

Reviewer 5: This sounds to me like a way to get people to not submit issues because they don't check all the boxes... So maybe just rephrase it like this: 

```
<!--- Do you have a live example in a sample repo? If so, please provide a link to it here. Otherwise, please provide a set of steps to -->
```

    <!--- reproduce this bug. Include code to reproduce, if relevant -->
    1.
    2.
    3.
    4.

    ## Additional Information

>     <!--- Include any relevant details about your environment (branch, browser, OS) -->

Reviewer: Hmm I think these are good ideas to have but just if they came up often. I don't think that is the case in our projects atm. When was the last time it was vital to know the Branch, Browser or OS to fix something in our OSS projects?

Reviewer 2: The idea is that it's not required but just some examples of info that somebody can put in this section, maybe branch or OS is not that useful, but knowing which browser or if it's mobile/desktop is useful (I don't think we had to fix issues with like... safari or mobile only because we usually don't test in safari or mobile for example). But that's just an example of what poeple can share when reporting an bug if it seems relevant.

Reviewer: so this will be adapted to each project? so some projects would need it and some not?

    <!--- and the bug (screenshots, logs, etc) -->

    **I will abide by the [code of conduct](<LINK TO CODE OF CONDUCT HERE>)**
```

### Issues: Feature Requests

```
    <!--- Before we start... -->
    <!--- Did you check the documentation for this feature? -->

>     <!--- Did you make sure that this feature has not already been requested? -->

Reviewer 5: Is it intentional the move to comments instead of checkboxes? What's the reasoning behind it?

Reviewer 2: Personally, I feel like this 2 questions shouldn't be part of the template, a `contributing.md` file explaining the guidelines used in the repo would be better so experienced contributors have less noise every time they add an issue.

I know some things gets repetitive too quickly if not really relevant for what you want to report.

    ## Description
    <!--- Provide a description of the change or addition you are proposing -->

    ## Possible Implementation
    <!--- Optionally suggest an idea for implementing addition or change -->

    ## Resources:
    <!--- If you have resources related to the implementation or research for this feature, add them here. -->

>     <!--- Include any mockup idea related to the requested feature if it applies. -->

Reviewer 3: @fbuys Small suggestion:

```suggestion
    <!--- If possible, include any mockup idea related to the requested feature. -->
```

    **I will abide by the [code of conduct](<LINK TO CODE OF CONDUCT HERE>)**
```

## Final thoughts:

> For the sake of simplicity we would prefer to have a single set of templates. We might

Reviewer 5: For the sake of simplicity, it might be a good idea to have a one-liner to quickly implement the templates in a project: 

```
/bin/bash -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/fastruby/install/templates/install.sh)"
```

find it necessary to provide two sets of templates: one for internal project and another

> for open source projects.

Reviewer 5: Yes, another distinction that could be useful, is it a project with a GUI or not? If there is a GUI, references to screenshots make sense, if it is a CLI library, then probably screenshots don't make much sense...

Reviewer 6: I agree that we should have an internal template. A lot of the information on the PR template is not necessary for internal projects at all.

# OmbuLabs Standard Github Templates

## Problem:

New and junior contributors might be unsure about the information we require to
efficiently review a PR. Similarly, it might be unclear what information is required when
a new BUG or FEATURE is logged as an issue in Github.

We have existing PR and ISSUE templates but they are inconsistent and might ask for
unnecessary information from the contributor.

The goal is to simplify  and streamline the steps required to make a contribution or log
an issue.

## Proposal:

Come up with a consistent set of Github templates. The templates should include prompts
only the ESSENTIAL information we require. We want to make sure that we don't ask for more
information than we require - as this will discourages contributions.

## Templates:

### Pull Requests

```
    <!--- Before we start... -->

>     <!--- If you're unsure about any of these, don't hesitate to ask. We're here to help! -->

Reviewer 2: here it's not clear where to ask for help, especially for external contributors that don't have access to our internal channels

maybe we shouldn't have this line or we should check with the OSS team to see if there's a way for people to reach out and ask for help

Author: I think it is meant to encourage you to ask for help in the PR comments / description. But to clearly explain that might not be worth it. What do you think?

Reviewer 2: Maybe it can be rephrased? I see that as if there were some public place to ask for questions before creating the PR since it's in the `before we start` section (like the Discussions boards here on github, or some slack channel), I'm not sure how to rephrase it though haha

I feel like if you are creating a PR you probably already asked the relevant questions in the associated issue?

Author: @arielj what do you think about:
`Don't hesitate to use the comments section of this PR to ask questions. We're here to help!`

Reviewer 4: Ariel mentioned it, but [GitHub Discussions](https://docs.github.com/en/discussions) is pretty cool if we want to have a separate section for questions vs. issues/bugs/feature requests. `react-spring` uses it and it helps with keeping support-type questions out of the Issues section.

Author: Great, thanks for the suggestion. I am open to using GitHub discussions - but I think making that decision would be something the whole team needs to be involved with. I'll add a story to our backlog to investigate and potentially propose GitHub Discussions as a way to manage discussions in a repo.

    <!--- Did you update any relevant documentation -->
    <!--- Did you add tests to cover new changes -->

    ## Description
    <!--- Describe your changes in detail -->
    <!--- Please read the README before submitting pull requests for this project. -->

    ## Motivation and Context
    <!--- Why is this change required? What problem does it solve? -->
    <!--- If it fixes an open issue, please link to the issue here. -->

    ## How Has This Been Tested?

>     <!--- Include any relevant details about your testing environment -->

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    <!--- Include any relevant details about your testing environment and the steps you followed -->
```

    ## Screenshots (if appropriate):

    **I will abide by the [code of conduct](<LINK TO CODE OF CONDUCT HERE>)**
```

### Issues: Bug Reports

```
    <!--- Before we start... -->
    <!--- Did you check the documentation for answers? -->

>     <!--- Did you sure that this issue has not already been filed? -->

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    <!--- Did you make sure that this bug has not already been reported? -->
```

    ## Expected Behavior
    <!--- Tell us what should happen -->

    ## Actual Behavior
    <!--- Tell us what happens instead -->

    ## Possible Fix
    <!--- Optionally suggest a fix or reason for the bug -->

    ## Steps to Reproduce
    <!--- Provide a link to a live example, or an unambiguous set of steps to -->
    <!--- reproduce this bug. Include code to reproduce, if relevant -->
    1.
    2.
    3.
    4.

>     ## Your Environment

Reviewer 2: How about condensing these last 3 items in one? something like `Extra information` `Include any relevant details about your environment (branch, browser, OS) and the bug (screenshots, logs, etc)`

Author: Good suggestion ✅

    <!--- Include as many relevant details about the environment you experienced the bug in -->
    * What branch/commit are you on?:
    * Version used:
    * Environment name and version (e.g. Chrome 39, node.js 5.4):
    * Operating System and version (desktop or mobile):

    **Screenshots and Videos**
    <!--- If the issue has an effect in the frontend, include any relevant screenshots and videos here. -->

    **Logs**
    <!--- Include relevant log snippets or files here. -->

    **I will abide by the [code of conduct](<LINK TO CODE OF CONDUCT HERE>)**
```

### Issues: Feature Requests

```
    <!--- Before we start... -->
    <!--- Did you check the documentation for this feature? -->

>     <!--- Did you sure that this issue has not already been filed? -->

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    <!--- Did you make sure that this feature has not already been requested? -->
```

    <!--- Did you make sure that this feature has not already been requested? -->

>     ## Detailed Description

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    ## Description
```

# OmbuLabs Standard Github Templates

## Problem:

New and junior contributors might be unsure about the information we require to
efficiently review a PR. Similarly, it might be unclear what information is required when
a new BUG or FEATURE is logged as an issue in Github.

We have existing PR and ISSUE templates but they are inconsistent and might ask for
unnecessary information from the contributor.

The goal is to simplify  and streamline the steps required to make a contribution or log
and issue.

## Proposal:

Come up with a consistent set of Github templates. The templates should include prompts
and checklists for only the ESSENTIAL pieces of information we require. We want to make
sure that we don't ask for more information than we require - as this will discourage
contributions.

## Templates:

### Pull Requests

```

>     <!--- Provide a general summary of your changes in the Title above -->

Reviewer 2: I think we can omit this, it's expected that the title is clear

Author: Thanks, removed it.

    ## Description
    <!--- Describe your changes in detail -->
    <!--- Please read the README before submitting pull requests for this project. -->

    ## Motivation and Context
    <!--- Why is this change required? What problem does it solve? -->
    <!--- If it fixes an open issue, please link to the issue here. -->

    ## How Has This Been Tested?
    <!--- Please describe in detail how you tested your changes. -->
    <!--- Include details of your testing environment, and the tests you ran to -->

>     <!--- see how your change affects other areas of the code, etc. -->

Reviewer 2: Maybe we can simplify this as `Include any details from your testing environment that you consider relevant` or something like that. Since these commands has to be deleted I think it's better to keep them short.

    ## Screenshots (if appropriate):

>     ## Types of changes

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure if this section is really needed, I personally fill it but I always ignore it, the description should be clear enough to understand what the PR is changing

    <!--- What types of changes does your code introduce? Put an `x` in all the boxes that apply: -->
    - [ ] Bug fix (non-breaking change which fixes an issue)
    - [ ] New feature (non-breaking change which adds functionality)
    - [ ] Breaking change (fix or feature that would cause existing functionality to change)

    ## Checklist:
    <!--- Go over all the following points, and put an `x` in all the boxes that apply. -->
    <!--- If you're unsure about any of these, don't hesitate to ask. We're here to help! -->

>     - [ ] My code follows the code style of this project.

Reviewer 2: this should be enforced on CI ideally so I wouldn't add this as a check

>     - [ ] My change requires a change to the documentation.

Reviewer 2: It this requires a documentation update it should be clear somewhere else, like what kind of updated? updating the readme (it should be included in the PR already)? changing some tettra page (it should be included in the related issue description)?

>     - [ ] I have updated the documentation accordingly.

Reviewer 2: same as before, if it requires documentation update then it should be clear somewhere else by either having the updated documentation here or making it clear in the description

    - [ ] I have read the **CONTRIBUTING** document.

>     - [ ] I have added tests to cover my changes.

Reviewer 2: tests are always expected, I understand this is more like a reminder for the author of the PR, but these long checklists are too easy to start ignoring after you get used to it

>     - [ ] All new and existing tests passed.

Reviewer 2: this should be enforced by CI, no need to have a checkbox

>     - [ ] I will abide by the code of conduct.

Reviewer 2: I think we shouldn't have a checkbox here, like we don't have it for the bug report template

```

### Issues: Bug Reports

```
    <!--- Provide a general summary of the issue in the Title above -->

>     ## Before we start...

Reviewer 2: these checklists are too easy to overlook and ignore after you get used to it, I think they just add noise, I think nobody really uses them

I understand it's more like a reminder but it's not obligatory to check things, but I don't think it's adding any real value to the report

    - [ ] I checked the documentation and found no answer
    - [ ] I checked to make sure that this issue has not already been filed
    - [ ] I'm reporting the issue to the correct repository (for multi-repository projects)

    ## Description
    <!--- Provide a more detailed introduction to the issue itself, and why you consider it to be a bug -->

    ## Expected Behavior
    <!--- Tell us what should happen -->

    ## Actual Behavior
    <!--- Tell us what happens instead -->

    ## Possible Fix
    <!--- Not obligatory, but suggest a fix or reason for the bug -->

    ## Steps to Reproduce
    <!--- Provide a link to a live example, or an unambiguous set of steps to -->
    <!--- reproduce this bug. Include code to reproduce, if relevant -->
    1.
    2.
    3.
    4.

    ## Context

>     <!--- How has this bug affected you? What were you trying to accomplish? -->

Reviewer 2: I understand the context should be part of the steps to reproduce the bug if the context is relevant

    ## Your Environment
    <!--- Include as many relevant details about the environment you experienced the bug in -->
    * What branch/commit are you on?:
    * Version used:
    * Environment name and version (e.g. Chrome 39, node.js 5.4):
    * Operating System and version (desktop or mobile):

>     * Link to your project:

Reviewer 2: what does this one mean?

Author: I think it can be removed, it think if you were making use of for example dotenv_validator and then we can review the code from your github repo.

    **Screenshots and Videos**
    <!--- If the issue has an effect in the frontend, include any relevant screenshots and videos here. -->

    **Logs**
    <!--- Include relevant log snippets or files here. -->

    **I will abide by the [code of conduct] ()**
```

### Issues: Feature Requests

```
    <!--- Provide a general summary of the issue in the Title above -->

    ## Before we start...
    - [ ] I checked the documentation and didn't find this feature
    - [ ] I checked to make sure that this feature has not already been requested

    ## Detailed Description
    <!--- Provide a detailed description of the change or addition you are proposing -->

>     ## Context

Reviewer 2: This should be part of the detailed description of the feature, I don't think it needs its own section

    <!--- Why is this change important to you? How would you use it? -->
    <!--- How can it benefit other users? -->

    ## Possible Implementation
    <!--- Not obligatory, but suggest an idea for implementing addition or change -->

    ## Resources:
    <!--- If you have resources related to the implementation or research for this feature, add them here. -->
    <!--- Include any mockup idea related to the requested feature if it applies. -->

>     ## Your Environment

Reviewer 2: This refers to experiencing a bug, we probably don't need this section
